- [Instructor] Let's take a look
how we can scale a service.
That means, if there are three replicas
of a service running, scale it to six,
up or down from three to one, or three to six,
and then rolling update of a service.
What that means is, if you have a particular version
of a service running, and then you want
to upgrade all the containers, or all the replicas
of the service to a newer version.
Now scaling is pretty straightforward.
Now it's a declarative state anyway,
so all you say is docker service scale,
so it's a subcommand of service command,
and then you give the service name,
and then you say how many instances you want.
If you say six, it just runs six containers for you.
In this case, it's running all six containers
on worker nodes, but as discussed earlier,
it could have been very well the manager node, as well.
So scaling is pretty simple, and we'll take a look
at that in a second.
Rolling update.
Now in this case, I have six replicas
of a particular application running on my worker nodes.
I want to upgrade those versions from version one
to version two.
Let's say version one is already running,
and I want to upgrade to version two.
Now the command for that would be, docker service,
the subcommand would be, update.
Then I'll give it the name, web, which is my service name,
and then the easiest way is, I can give it the new image
using --image option, and then I give the image name,
which in this case is wildfly:2,
or it could have been wildfly-app:2,
whatever your image name is.
Then comes --update-parallelism.
I'm saying update two images at a point in time,
and then after two images are updated,
and wait for for 10 seconds.
This 10 second could be critical for you
in case you want the cluster to settle down
or some event to happen to update somebody.
Essentially, two containers are updated,
wait for 10 seconds,
and the next two containers are updated,
wait for 10 seconds, and then finally,
the last two containers are updated and there you go.
So you've upgraded your service from version one
to version two.
Let's see this in action now.
This is a run from our previous section,
so let's see what we can do here.
Let's first clear the screen.
Let's take a look at the list of services
that are running here.
So for that, I am going to say,
docker-machine ssh manager1,
manager1 is the primary manager,
so we are guiding the command to that.
And then we are saying, docker service ls.
So this shows that I have three out
of three replicas, all running.
I can get more details about it.
I can say, ps web.
And then it shows me
that there are two shut down containers
and three containers that are running.
Now this is a little convoluted output for me,
so what I can do is, I can also set up a filter here.
I can say filter, and I can say desired-state=running.
And I may have to escape the code here.
And there you go.
So now I'm seeing only the containers
that are running, and it's a lot easier for me to read.
Let's see how we scale this service.
Just for convenience, we are going to pass asset
into manager1 itself.
So here we are.
And now, I can give the same command here very easily,
saying, docker service ps, apply the filter,
and I'm going to say desired-state=running for web.
And I get the exact same out.
Okay.
Scaling, as we said, is scale web=6.
It just gives me the command right away,
that web scaled to six.
Let's take a look at the services.
And as you can see from the output, on manager2,
it's preparing.
And the reason it's preparing is
because on manager2 the image has never been downloaded.
On the nodes where the image has been downloaded,
the container is already up and running,
so that's pretty cool.
Now if I go back and I say just show me the list
of services, now it says six of six are running.
So that is pretty cool.
Now literally, by a single command,
we can easily fire up the service,
scale the service,
and we could have scaled it down, as well.
Just for convenience, let's remove this service, as well.
And now if I say list the services,
the service is completely gone.
So that shows you how easy it is
to manage the service life cycle from the CLI itself.
The next command that I want to show you is,
as we discussed was, a rolling update of a service.
So I need to create six replicas, for example,
for a particular application.
And the way I'm going to do that is I'm going to say,
docker, service, create,
I'm going to give it the name webapp,
and I'm going to say create six replicas,
and I will say expose it on port 8080:8080,
this is a Swarm wide ingress port for me.
And I'm going to use an application that I've created,
wildfly-app, and I'm going to use version one.
So this is going to create six replicas,
and I have a cluster running, so it's going to be spread
across multiple nodes of the cluster.
And at this point, if I say, docker service ls,
it's saying, okay, none of the replicas are running.
We can get more details about it.
We can say ps webapp.
And, as you can see here, it's showing, preparing.
What that means is
that image is apparently getting downloaded,
and once the image is downloaded,
it will start up the application.
You can also see that we are using wildfly-app:1.
This is version one consistently all across all the nodes.
Let's check the status of our service again,
and now, indeed, all six are running.
Now, let's see if we were to access this application,
how this would look.
I am in the browser window here,
and what I'm going to do is, I'm going to use my master,
which his 192.68.99.100, and the ingress port was 8080,
and here is my app, and here is my index.asp.
Now let me warn you, I'm not a graphics designer,
I am a backend person, so my UIs could be ugly,
but they convey the point.
Ta-da.
I see a bright green page.
I want to see big indicators.
What it says is, it's a simple web application,
version one.
Okay, let's switch back to our terminal.
And now, what we're going to do is,
now we going to rolling update it.
So we can say, docker, service, update, webapp.
That's the one that we want to update
and I am going to change it to a new image,
which is going to be my wildfly-app:2,
and I'm going to say update two at a time,
parallelism, and I'm going to say that value is two,
and then, I'm going to say, within each update,
wait for 10 seconds, okay?
So let's read this command again,
docker, service, update, this particular service,
image, new image is wildfly-app:2,
update, parallelism, that means update two at a time,
or two containers at a time, and between each update,
wait for 10 seconds.
So let me fire this command here,
and let's look at the service here.
So it brings two down, and brings two up.
Let's take a look at this here.
If I see the output here, you can see,
there are one, two, three, four, five six are running
with version one.
And two with version two.
Well, let's use our filter.
We want to see only the running ones, okay?
So if I see a running one,
after 10 seconds, two containers at a given point of time,
they've all been upgraded, okay?
And you can see the difference here.
So these were after 12 and 13 seconds,
they waited for 10 seconds, then after these were done,
but these were the last ones to be done, essentially.
So now, if I go back to my application here,
and I refresh the page, once again, warning,
I'm not a graphics person here,
Ta-da.
It changed from green to red.
But that's sort of how your rolling update work.
Now you saw that live in action.
So just to summarize, in these section,
we saw how easy it is to scale your service
and do a rolling update of a service.